Day 2 Work:
Reviewed and added in new insights to the reflection document. (The day 2 copy is what remains present in the day 1 folder.)
Additions had to do with unmentioned feedback components, my own archaeogaming experience, and fixing writing errors.
Attempt to remember how we got some simple things running in netlogo before... From memory alone - run and setup made.
Looked up a basic syntax example and got a fun, chaotic little mess to play with. I recorded what this looks like in the Ephemera folder (please forgive the background audio, it is irrelevant).
Add a level for how gulllible an agent is (random float from 0 to 1)
Set all turtles to not believe in the hoax
Set just one turtle to believe in the hoax

During runtime, attempt to trick one random turtle into believing the hoax if you believe it.
I wa considering 'if two turtles are near one another' but this doesn't seem to be well supported in netlogo.
Expected reporter error for when I start to convert other turtles. Hmmm. (See Ephemera)
Had to change the code to ask for a random turtle target first, unfortunately this means it can try to convince itself. However, it does seem to properly attempt to trick now.
Perhaps this should be represented with a color change? All tricked turtles will be red, all non-tricked turtles will be blue.
Implemented and testing... Another error! Sum expected to be a list but got a float instead. Changed 'sum' to 'max'. Doesn't work, accidentally found out how to do conversions based on proximity.
It finally works! But it gives a red background screen, which isn't right. ...And it also creates a strange pattern of dark squares before the whole screen turns red, which may be because whenever a turtle is converted
it converts the ground beneath it instead of changing color itself. Could this be analagous to littering? Probably not, because each turtle will litter infinitely and quickly cover every square.
With some more adjustments, it finally works! Had to add a weight value so that turtles didnt try to convert themselves because they are always closest to themselves! See ephemera for working version day 2

I am realizing that if I stopped here, this wouldn't represent a hoax at all - it would represent an attempt to educate all the people in a static environment based on how receptive they are to the subject.
Add regenerating food piles to the simulation tomorrow and probably decrease the weight!